title: Climbing Mt. Foo â›°
date: 2018-02-27
category: mt-foo
tags: mt-foo

## Introduction
What does it take to become a programmer? The easy path is to take a
3-5 year computer science degree at a university. But what if you
don't have the possibility for doing this? What if you either don't
have the time, cannot afford it, don't have the grades or requirements
for entering such a course or you live in an area where there's no
such course at all?

Climbing Mt. Foo is my answer to these questions.

The aim of climbing Mt Foo is to create an easy introduction into the
technologies I deem essential for becoming a coder while at the same
time don't dumb it down. Mt. Foo uses the correct terminology where
ever it can and ensure to provide pointers so that the student can
explore and learn more on the subjects.

As well as climbing Mt Foo, you'll get guidance on how to become a
good craftsman, showing that you not only know what you're doing but
that you also care about your work. Look for the hammer symbol ðŸ”¨ for
tips on good craftsmanship.

Mt Foo also teaches some of the culture surrounding coding, whenever
you see the theatre masks, ðŸŽ­, there's a piece of programming or
system administration culture to learn. Here's one:

## Why it's called "foo" ðŸŽ­

Whenever coders need some example data, a name or just a string of
text, there are some words that you'll see all over the place: Foo is
the top one. And if there are three values, they're often `foo`,
`bar`, `baz`.

If there's an example numeric value, it's often `42`. This is a
reference to the book [The Hitchhiker's Guide to the
Galaxy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hitchhiker%27s_Guide_to_the_Galaxy)
and ["The answer to life, the universe and
everything"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phrases_from_The_Hitchhiker%27s_Guide_to_the_Galaxy#Answer_to_the_Ultimate_Question_of_Life,_the_Universe,_and_Everything_(42)).

## First climb: HTML & CSS

1. [First steps in HTML]({filename}html/01.md)
1. [Further steps in HTML]({filename}html/02.md)

## Second climb: JavaScript

## Take a breather

## Third climb: Python

## Take a breather

## Fourth climb: Networking

## Sixth climb: HTTP

## Take a breather

## Seventh climb: Unix command line

## Eight climb: Version control - who changed which line when?

