title: Making Your HTML Look Good ⛰
date: 2018-03-15
category: mt-foo
tags: mt-foo, html, css

Now you've learned the basics about HTML. We'll now look at how you
can make the HTML, also called _markup_, look good.

The language for making HTML look good is called CSS, Cascading Style
Sheets. It's created by the same group that made HTML, the
[W3C](http://w3c.org).

## Defining colours 

Create a file `style.css` and put the following in it:

```css
h1 {
  color: red;
}
```

This makes all the big `<h1>` headline elements red. We need to wire
up the CSS file from the HTML, so in your HTML file, we'll add a
`<link/>`  element to tell the browser where to get the style
sheet. Since this is not content, but meta information about your web
page, it's put in the `<head>` element instead of `<body>`:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>My headline should be red</h1>
    <h2>This header should have the browser default colours</h2>
  </body>
</html>
```

Notice that this is an empty element, so the start tag ends with `/>`
and there's no `</link>`. The `<link>` element is used for linking
lots of things to our web page, so we must tell it that it's a
`stylesheet` by using the `rel` (relation) attribute.

Now, the header should be red.

## Page layout

We can apply style directives to the whole page too, by adding a
`body` block in the `style.css` file. This is useful for example for
defining margins for your page:

```css
body {
  margin-top: 10%;
  margin-left: 5%;
  margin-right: 5%;
  margin-bottom: 10%;
}
```

## Fonts

Another thing you might want to define for the entire web page, is the
font to use. CSS allows you to define a list from which the browser
can pick the first one it finds. At the end of the list, you should
put a font-family which is one of: "serif", "sans-serif", "cursive",
"fantasy" and "monospace".

```css
body {
  font-family: Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;
}
```

If there's a space in the font name, you must put the name in quotes
(`"Airy brush"`).

