title: Discoveries
date: 2014-11-22

Skybert's small and big discoveries.

## 2015-01-12

[puppet-lint](http://puppet-lint.com/) will not only spot errors and
deviations from Puppet Lab's best practices, it will also fix many of
these issues for you:

``` $ puppet-lint --fix init.pp ```

## 2014-12-23

When using [GNU sed](https://www.gnu.org/software/sed), you can use
much more powerful regular expressions by passing the
```--regexp-extended``` switch to ```sed```.

Passing ```--regexp-extended```, or just ```-r```, also makes some of
the syntax easier as you don't have to escape group parenthesis and I
find ```sed``` overall becomes more predictable using this switch.


## 2014-12-22

<div>
  <a href="http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown">
    <img src="http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/48/Markdown-mark.svg/208px-Markdown-mark.svg.png"
         style="height: 200px;"
         alt="markdown"
     />
   </a>
</div>

It's easy writing presentation slides using Markdown and generate
these into beautiful HTML5 slides with CSS3 transitions from
[reval.js](https://github.com/hakimel/reveal.js/)  by using
[pandoc](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/demo/example9/producing-slide-shows-with-pandoc.html)

Previously, I've been using an exporter to Emacs org, but ```pandoc```
is so much more stable and flexible.

## 2014-12-18

[PlantUML](https://yar.fruct.org/projects/plantuml-deb) is a great
command for generating diagrams from plain text files. It also sports
a Confluence plugin - among other things.

## 2014-11-26

[Flask](https://github.com/mitsuhiko/flask): Impressed with what I've
read and tried out so far. In less than 20 lines of code, I've a
standalone micro service Python application which routes different
HTTP URLs to internal methods, reads user input and outputs JSON
objects.

From the (first hour) look at it, it seems that Flask strikes just the
right balance between simplicity and bare bones Python on the one hand
and support for real world world features like security, complex
objects, templating, database integration, application types, error
handling, logging and easy deployment on the other.

<div>
  <a href="http://flask.pocoo.org">
    <img src="http://flask.pocoo.org/static/logo/flask.png"
         style="height: 200px;"
         alt="flask"
    />
  </a>
</div>
## 2014-11-22

I've read about these
[free HTML grids before,](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2013/08/07/type-grids-free-template/)
but I didn't check them out to see how simple and beautiful they were
before now.

<div>
  <a href="http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2013/08/07/type-grids-free-template/">
    <img
      src="http://media.mediatemple.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/typeandgrids_05.png"
      alt="html grids"
      style="height: 200px;"
    />
  </a>
</div>

## 2014-11-12
Excellent geeky comic strips: [commitstrip](http://www.commitstrip.com/)

<div>
  <a href="http://www.commitstrip.com/">
    <img
      src="http://www.commitstrip.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Strip-DÃ©part-Adrien-650-finalenglish1.jpg"
      alt="commit strip comic"
      style="height: 200px;"
    />
  </a>
</div>

## 2004-11-10
[Idle highlight](http://www.emacswiki.org/cgi-bin/wiki/IdleHighlight)
mode gives you IDEA/Eclipse-like highlighting of other uses of the
variable/method under your cursor. It only triggers after a slight
delay, which is excellent.

<div>
  <img src="http://i.imgur.com/YJs5WeZ.png"
       alt="idle highlight"
       style="height: 200px;"
  />
</div>


