title: How to Make Me Enjoy Work & Be More Effective
date: 2022-03-03
category: various
tags: various

## Let me choose my own tools 🛠️

Coding isn't just my job. It's my passion. I love it. On Sunday
evening, I look forward to Monday morning when I can go to work and
live my passion: hacking on cutting edge technology.

Since coding is my passion, I'm also passionate about my tools. Let me
run my preferred operating system (these days, that's [Garuda
Linux](https://garudalinux.org)), use my preferred editor
([Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/)) and so on. It'll make a
world of difference. To me (happiness) and to my boss (higher
throughput and quality solutions).

## Let me learn new things 📖

Once or twice a year, send me off to a conference where I can learn
new things, hear the buzz, connect to fellow coders and be
inspired. It charges my batteries.

## Let me try out new things 🤠🚀

Once a week, once a month or some other regular, predictable schedule,
give me some dedicated time where I can focus on whatever I believe is
to the benefit of our company. It'll ensure both that I can stay on
top of new tech and that our company gets valuable fuel for
innovation.

## Let me write code (not attend meetings) 🔨

It's not that I hate meetings. Every now and then, a good meeting is
invigorating, fruitful and even fun. In general, however, meetings are
not that. I find them tedious, they take me out of my flow, and don't
bring much value. If you want me in a meeting, please keep the
attendee list short, mail the agenda in advance and be sure to have
well thought out list of objectives or questions for the meeting.

Oh, and time box it. 15 minutes for status meetings. 30-60 minutes for
kick offs and brainstorming talks.

## Let me talk 💬

As much as I'm a geeky backend developer who loves to "stay in the
zone", write code, patch servers and communicate in text rather than
in speech, I do *love* to stand up in front of a crowd and give a
talk. Give me a stage and a subject you want me to present and I'll do
it. Happily.





